okay what if a word flew into a plane's
engine bye-bye birdie
if you're really fascinated with
aviation or you have a fear of flying
I'm sure there are all kinds of
questions running through your mind like
what would happen if a bird flew into a
plane's engine or if the pilot can do us
all a big favor and fly around that
terrifying turbulence well before you
get the answers to these questions and
more hit that subscribe button and ring
the bell icon to join us here on the
bright side now for the star of the show
let's count down from number five what
if a bird flew into a plane's engine
here's the question that's not pretty to
imagine but I'm sure we've all wondered
it does happen and it's referred to as a
bird strike no they don't walk off their
union jobs on strike if a bird
unfortunately flies right into an
airplanes engine this feathered creature
can actually disable it never mind that
the birds day has taken a turn for the
worse but most aircraft have at least
two sometimes up to four working engines
and pilots can still fly the plane after
losing one of the engines if they have
to typically a single bird flying into
an engine doesn't cause the plane to
crash or even make an emergency landing
as for how often these bird strikes
actually occur it's probably more often
than you think
according to tech insider there were
nearly 160 1,000 bird strikes on US
aircraft between the years of 1998 2015
but don't worry just 40 of these flights
actually had accidents afterwards
in fact bird strikes cost us Airlines
approximately 1.2 billion in damages
every year but only a part of that money
goes into repairing actual damage while
the rest accounts for flight delays and
cancellations so what would happen if
you were sitting on an airplane during a
bird strike well statistically speaking
it's more likely to happen during
takeoffs or landings and during the
daytime you can't expect it to happen
more during the months of July through
October and if it does occur just remain
calm the plane will most likely be fine
and it'll land safely if need be
the chances of birds flying into both
engines are pretty slim though that's
exactly what happened to us Airways
flight 1549 in 2009 where captain Sully
Sullenberger and his crew safely landed
his crippled airliner in the Hudson
River in New York and everyone on the
plane survived which is more than we can
say for the birds involved in case you
were wondering if a bird can survive
such a strike the sad answer is that it
can't so be careful out there birdies
number four what if a plane flies too
high in the sky
planes fly pretty high in the sky he
said with a sigh most cruise at about
35,000 feet that's roughly six point six
miles up in the air it's hard to believe
that a plane could fly any higher but it
actually can however that doesn't mean
that it should as you go higher and
higher in the sky the air becomes much
thinner this means that a commercial
airplane wouldn't be able to stay
gliding through the air since it relies
on a specific amount of air pressure
according to the Smithsonian National
Air and Space Museum as a plane ascends
more and more into the atmosphere the
air becomes less dense meaning the
engine sucks less air in limiting its
ability to climb higher or even maintain
altitude well it's tempting to wonder
what it looks like up there that high in
the sky you're better off not finding
out number three what if the pilot falls
asleep a pilot should manage to stay
awake for a three or four hour flight
but what about a 15 hour flight or
longer do pilots stay awake this whole
time believe it or not pilots do
sometimes take naps while flying the
plane shocking right
well don't freak out because on really
long trips there are always two pilots
so if one has to take a quick nap
there's always someone still flying the
plane
however not all countries feel the same
way about this in the US it's illegal
for pilots to take naps but in the UK
controlled naps are allowed number two
can pilots fly around turbulence a bit
of rockiness or turbulence on a flight
is pretty normal and if it occurs it's
no cause for alarm but with plenty of
open sky around the plane why can't the
pilot just choose to dodge it well it's
not that simple there are two kinds of
turbulence the first kind is clear air
turbulence or c80 this kind of
turbulence can't really be predicted
so flights can't plan around it if one
pilot who recently flew the same route
reports it another pilot can choose to
avoid it but they can't really veer off
course too much since it would add more
distance to the flight the other kind of
turbulence is caused by storm clouds
known as CBS or cumulonimbus clouds
during a flight that's in a cruising
state of Eila can maneuver around CBS to
a point however when a plane is landing
the pilot can't veer off course in fact
in the last five miles before landing a
pilot can't go off course at all with
either type of turbulence your safety
isn't at risk it may not feel great if
you're anxious about flying but trust
that your pilot knows what they're doing
and you'll be just fine number one why
do planes dim the cabin lights when
landing or taking off
if you've ever flown on a commercial
airline at dusk nighttime or early
morning you've probably noticed that
during takeoff and landing the cabin
lights go dim this has nothing to do
with a passengers comfort it's actually
a safety precaution in case of an
accident during a time when the sky
isn't at its brightest dimming the
lights lets passengers eyes adjust to
darkness quickly in the event that the
plane has to make an emergency
evacuation after all it takes a person
up to ten minutes to completely adjust a
sudden darkness and if there's an
emergency that time is extremely
valuable if the power suddenly went out
and you just had bright lights glaring
in your face you'd have a harder time
adjusting to your dark surroundings the
dim lights also make it easier for you
to spot important safety signs and
directions so there you have it
do you know any other cool facts about
planes let us know down in the comments
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
Subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]
you